And welcome back.
In this video we're going to talk about an important concept in JavaScript called scope.
Now what is scope scope means variable access what variables do I have access to when a code is running
so by default in JavaScript you are in the root scope which is the window object.
Let me show you what I'm talking about if in my console I do something like function a
console log test and we close off that function well now the function AA is part of the window scope.
If I go window here and open a window you'll see that the AA function has been added to the window scope
so when you're working in a browser This is called the root scope.
So the parent scope now what if I do something like this if I go function Bebe and within this function
will do variable A equals
what this function.
If I run this in the console
if I now do console to log a will that work no.
Because a only lives within function b b the scope is inside of the function.
So the only way we can do console log a is within the function to add whoops.
Sure they can within the function to add console log a.
So now if I run the function I have.
Hello.
Now the interesting thing is that functions have access to any variable in the root scope.
So for example if I do variable B equals can I access this will function Bebe has access to this because
as you know window dot Bebe exists and a variable B lives on the window object.
So they both have the same parent let me show you what I mean by copying this and putting it into the
console.
Now within function Bebe if we do console dialogue be
we have access to this okay.
What if I do something along the lines of variable B can I access this.
I do B equals Hello.
If I copy this
and now I do.
Console dot log B while I have can I access this because I have ran the function but if I run the function
Bebe.
Now if I do console log variable B I get Hello.
Because B is the same variable.
Okay let's do something a little bit more complex
so knowing what we know we know that this is the root scope in our cases the window within here we can
declare a variable fun we'll say equals 5 and we'll also declare
a function we'll call it fun function and within this function as soon as we create these curly brackets
we've created a child scoping here
so within here I'll say variable fun equals Lou and we'll console log fun here
and we'll create another function said this one we'll call funner function and within this one we'll
say by and we'll console log that and then finally we will create a third function and we'll call this
the funnest function and within here we'll remove the variable and we'll say
and at the bottom we'll also do console log
all right.
So let's go over this we're declaring a variable fun equals five we've created three functions and each
of these functions create their own scope
and each of these functions console log fun.
But what fun means in each one of them is different based on their scope so the first one.
Well title at one.
Just so we know the second will say to third.
And then finally here we can just say window so let's run this function and see what happens.
See if you can guess what's about to happen here.
OK so we have window 5 which means this line over here the fun variable is well five.
Nothing has been run we read through the script and we see that variable fine equals five.
Then we see these functions but none of them are run.
And now if I do fun function to actually run these and we'll do fun or function
and finally the funnest function if I copy and paste this and we run this we see we have window five
line 24 that I run which is variable five.
Now within the first function we have the variable fun equals to hello because well we've created new
scope and within this function lives variable fun that has.
Hello.
So that gets overwritten and then we have the second function that has by again.
Same thing as above.
Because we have a new scope a new variable fun equals bi.
And then the third one we see that we have fun equals R.
And again that gets changed and that equals to fun.
Here's the fun part though.
If I now do console dialogue fun
It's now equal to R because in the third function we've modified fun which is this variable to equal
to 0.
One thing I want to show you is that in the first two functions I won't be able to access the fun variable
in the root scope because I've essentially overridden them within the fun function and fun or function
fun equals something that is their own meaning.
So within this function fun equals Hello within the fun or function fun equals bi and no matter what
we won't have access to the root scope.
And this is called a naming conflict where we named things the same way as something that lives let's
say in the parent scope and we will lose access to it so to finalize this point let's just delete this
and go over.
What's happening here.
So let's delete this as well and we'll say just the console log here when somebody runs funnest function
we run this and JavaScript reads console log fun.
OK fun do we do we know her and we look at the scope here you look at this function Hey do you know
what fun is and the function says well sorry friend I don't really know fun but I asked my parent.
So now we go into outside of the function.
In this case the root scope now we say hey do you know fun.
And they're like Yeah we have a variable fun it equals five.
So now console log can log five but if fun doesn't exist we ask the parents and the parent says Sorry
I have no idea what fun is.
Then we get well we get an air so the last check is always the root scope in our case the window object
if we can't find it we get this error in the console we always see.
Sorry your friend variable doesn't exist.
I think you made her up and that's it for scope I have fun exercise for you right after this video give
it a try and I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.